Document how to use Certificates of Cert Manager (#11053)
traefik/traefik: docs/content/user-guides/cert-manager.md

---

> title: "Traefik Cert Manager Integration"

Reviewer: Here I would like to know if the product name should not be Cert-Manager (same for all occurrences)? It is branded like this in their documentation: https://cert-manager.io/docs/

Reviewer 2: It should be `cert-manager` see https://cert-manager.io/docs/faq/#how-to-write-cert-manager

Author: Thanks. Fixed with 29e346b05

> description: "Learn how to configure Traefik Proxy to use Cert Manager for certificate on your routers. Read the technical documentation."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to configure Traefik Proxy to use Cert Manager for certificate for your routers. Read the technical documentation."
```

Certificates are not tied to routes, the will be added to the cert store, and available then for any route, so I think we should avoid reinforcing this common misconception.

Author: That's right. :+1:  Thanks !

---

# Cert Manager

Provision TLS Certificate for Traefik Proxy with Cert Manager on Kubernetes
{: .subtitle }

You can configure Traefik Proxy to use Certificates of Cert Manager on Kubernetes.

## Checklist

To obtain a certificate from Cert Manager, you'll need to:

1. Deploy Cert Manager
2. Configure an Issuer (or a ClusterIssuer)
3. Create a Certificate with this Issuer

> 4. Deploy Traefik Proxy

Reviewer: I am not sure if this step should be added to the list as it can be misleading, someone can think that Traefik Proxy has to be deployed after Cert-Manager, it is more a prerequisite.

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

Author: @kevinpollet After second thought, yes it can be misleading.
@jsoref I have followed your suggestion. 

Thanks !

> 1. Deploy Cert Manager
> 2. Configure an Issuer (or a ClusterIssuer)
> 3. Create a Certificate with this Issuer
> 4. Deploy Traefik Proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Have cert-manager properly configured
2. Have Traefik Proxy configured
```

5. Use the certificate in an Ingress / IngressRoute / HTTPRoute

## Configuration Example with ACME and HTTP challenge

> !!! example "ACME issuer on http challenge"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! example "ACME issuer for HTTP challenge"
```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
    kind: Issuer
    metadata:
      name: acme

    spec:
      acme:
        # Production server is on https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
        # Use staging by default.
        server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
        privateKeySecretRef:
          name: acme
        solvers:
          - http01:
              ingress:
                ingressClassName: traefik
    ```

> !!! example "Certificate with this Issuer"

Reviewer: Why not using a tab here?

Author: The idea of using tab came to my mind later when writing this. I fixed it with my last commits.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
    kind: Certificate
    metadata:
      name: whoami
      namespace: traefik
    spec:

>       secretName: domain-tls        # <===  Name of secret here

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      secretName: domain-tls        # <===  Name of secret where the generated certificate will be stored
```

      dnsNames:
        - "domain.example.com"
      issuerRef:
        name: acme
        kind: Issuer
    ```

> !!! example "Route with this Certificate"

Reviewer: Here I would have created a new section, something like how to use the certificate generated above, wdyt?

>     ```yaml tab="Ingress"

Reviewer: Maybe I would have created a subsection by Kubernetes resource with a note explaining that the corresponding provider has to be enabled with a link to the doc, wdyt?

Author: I have tried something following this idea with 29e346b05. Wdyt ?

    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: domain
      annotations:
        traefik.ingress.kubernetes.io/router.entrypoints: websecure

    spec:
      rules:
      - host: domain.example.com
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /
            pathType: Exact
            backend:
              service:
                name:  domain-service
                port:
                  number: 80
      tls:

>       - secretName: domain-tls # <=== Use name defined in Certificate resource

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      - secretName: domain-tls # <=== Use the name defined in Certificate resource
```

    ```

    ```yaml tab="IngressRoute"
    apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IngressRoute
    metadata:
      name: domain

    spec:
      entryPoints:
        - websecure

      routes:
      - match: Host(`domain.example.com`)
        kind: Rule
        services:
        - name: domain-service
          port: 80
      tls:

>         secretName: domain-tls    # <=== Use name defined in Certificate resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        secretName: domain-tls    # <=== Use the name defined in Certificate resource
```

    ```

    ```yaml tab="HTTPRoute"
    ---
    apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: domain-gateway
    spec:
      gatewayClassName: traefik
      listeners:
        - name: websecure
          port: 8443
          protocol: HTTPS
          hostname: domain.example.com
          tls:
            certificateRefs:

>               - name: domain-tls  # <==== Use name defined in Certificate resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
              - name: domain-tls  # <==== Use the name defined in Certificate resource
```

    ---
    apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: HTTPRoute
    metadata:
      name: domain
    spec:
      parentRefs:
        - name: domain-gateway
      hostnames:
        - domain.example.com
      rules:
        - matches:
            - path:
                type: Exact
                value: /

          backendRefs:
            - name: domain-service
              port: 80
              weight: 1
    ```

## Troubleshooting

> There are multiples sources available to investigate when using Cert Manager:

Reviewer: Here I am wondering if we could add some link to the corresponding section in the Cert-Manager documentation.

Author: I found one and added it to this document.

> 1. `Certificate` and `CertificateRequest` kubernetes events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Kubernetes events in `Certificate` and `CertificateRequest` resources
```

> 2. logs of Cert Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Cert-Manager logs
```

> 3. dashboard and/or logs of Traefik Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Dashboard and/or logs of Traefik Proxy
```

---
title: "Integration with cert-manager"
description: "Learn how to use cert-manager certificates with Traefik Proxy for your routers. Read the technical documentation."
---

# cert-manager

Provision TLS Certificate for Traefik Proxy with cert-manager on Kubernetes
{: .subtitle }

> Traefik Proxy can use Certificates of cert-manager on Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Traefik Proxy can get Certificates from cert-manager on Kubernetes.
```

> Traefik Proxy can get Certificates from cert-manager on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Not sure that this sentence is needed, it seems to be a repetition of the previous one.

Author: I double checked and you're right.

Author: It's fixed.

## Pre-requisites

> To obtain certificates from cert-manager usable in Traefik Proxy, you'll need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain certificates from cert-manager that can be used in Traefik Proxy, you will need to:
```

1. Have cert-manager properly configured
2. Have Traefik Proxy configured

The certificates can then be used in an Ingress / IngressRoute / HTTPRoute.

## Example with ACME and HTTP challenge

!!! example "ACME issuer for HTTP challenge"

    ```yaml tab="Issuer"
    apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
    kind: Issuer
    metadata:
      name: acme

    spec:
      acme:
        # Production server is on https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
        # Use staging by default.
        server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
        privateKeySecretRef:
          name: acme
        solvers:
          - http01:
              ingress:
                ingressClassName: traefik
    ```

    ```yaml tab="Certificate"
    apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
    kind: Certificate
    metadata:
      name: whoami
      namespace: traefik
    spec:

>       secretName: domain-tls        # <===  Name of secret where the generated certificate will be stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      secretName: domain-tls        # <===  Name of secret where the generated certificate will be stored.
```

      dnsNames:
        - "domain.example.com"
      issuerRef:
        name: acme
        kind: Issuer
    ```

> Let's see now how to use it with the various Kubernetes provider of Traefik Proxy. The enabled providers can be seen on the [dashboard](../../operations/dashboard/) of Traefik Proxy and also in the INFO logs when Traefik Proxy starts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see now how to use it with the various Kubernetes providers of Traefik Proxy. The enabled providers can be seen on the [dashboard](../../operations/dashboard/) of Traefik Proxy and also in the INFO logs when Traefik Proxy starts.
```

> Let's see now how to use it with the various Kubernetes providers of Traefik Proxy. The enabled providers can be seen on the [dashboard](../../operations/dashboard/) of Traefik Proxy and also in the INFO logs when Traefik Proxy starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's see now how to use it with the various Kubernetes providers of Traefik Proxy.
The enabled providers can be seen on the [dashboard](../../operations/dashboard/) of Traefik Proxy and also in the INFO logs when Traefik Proxy starts.
```

> ### with an Ingress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### With an Ingress
```

> In order to use this certificate with an Ingress, the [Kubernetes Ingress](../../routing/providers/kubernetes-ingress/) provider, this provider needs to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this certificate with an Ingress, the [Kubernetes Ingress](../../providers/kubernetes-ingress/) provider has to be enabled.
```

!!! info Traefik Helm Chart

>     This provider is enabled by default on Traefik Helm Chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This provider is enabled by default in the Traefik Helm Chart.
```

!!! example "Route with this Certificate"

    ```yaml tab="Ingress"
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
      name: domain
      annotations:
        traefik.ingress.kubernetes.io/router.entrypoints: websecure

    spec:
      rules:
      - host: domain.example.com
        http:
          paths:
          - path: /
            pathType: Exact
            backend:
              service:
                name:  domain-service
                port:
                  number: 80
      tls:

>       - secretName: domain-tls # <=== Use the name defined in Certificate resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - secretName: domain-tls # <=== Use the name defined in Certificate resource.
```

    ```

> ### with an IngressRoute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### With an IngressRoute
```

> In order to use this certificate with an IngressRoute, the [Kubernetes CRD](../../routing/providers/kubernetes-crd) provider, this provider needs to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this certificate with an IngressRoute, the [Kubernetes CRD](../../providers/kubernetes-crd) provider has to be enabled.
```

!!! info Traefik Helm Chart

>     This provider is enabled by default on Traefik Helm Chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This provider is enabled by default in the Traefik Helm Chart.
```

!!! example "Route with this Certificate"

    ```yaml tab="IngressRoute"
    apiVersion: traefik.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IngressRoute
    metadata:
      name: domain

    spec:
      entryPoints:
        - websecure

      routes:
      - match: Host(`domain.example.com`)
        kind: Rule
        services:
        - name: domain-service
          port: 80
      tls:

>         secretName: domain-tls    # <=== Use the name defined in Certificate resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        secretName: domain-tls    # <=== Use the name defined in Certificate resource.
```

    ```

> ### with an HTTPRoute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### With an HTTPRoute
```

> In order to use this certificate with an HTTPRoute, the [Kubernetes Gateway](../../routing/providers/kubernetes-gateway) provider, this provider needs to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this certificate with an HTTPRoute, the [Kubernetes Gateway](../../routing/providers/kubernetes-gateway) provider has to be enabled.
```

!!! info Traefik Helm Chart

>     This provider is disabled by default on Traefik Helm Chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This provider is disabled by default in the Traefik Helm Chart.
```

!!! example "Route with this Certificate"

    ```yaml tab="HTTPRoute"
    ---
    apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: domain-gateway
    spec:
      gatewayClassName: traefik
      listeners:
        - name: websecure
          port: 8443
          protocol: HTTPS
          hostname: domain.example.com
          tls:
            certificateRefs:

>               - name: domain-tls  # <==== Use the name defined in Certificate resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              - name: domain-tls  # <==== Use the name defined in Certificate resource.
```

    ---
    apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: HTTPRoute
    metadata:
      name: domain
    spec:
      parentRefs:
        - name: domain-gateway
      hostnames:
        - domain.example.com
      rules:
        - matches:
            - path:
                type: Exact
                value: /

          backendRefs:
            - name: domain-service
              port: 80
              weight: 1
    ```

## Troubleshooting

> There are multiples sources available to investigate when using cert-manager:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are multiple event sources available to investigate when using cert-manager:
```

1. Kubernetes events in `Certificate` and `CertificateRequest` resources
2. cert-manager logs

> 3. Dashboard and/or (debug) logs of Traefik Proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Dashboard and/or (debug) logs from Traefik Proxy
```

---
title: "Integration with cert-manager"
description: "Learn how to use cert-manager certificates with Traefik Proxy for your routers. Read the technical documentation."
---

# cert-manager

Provision TLS Certificate for Traefik Proxy with cert-manager on Kubernetes
{: .subtitle }

> 
> Traefik Proxy can get Certificates from cert-manager on Kubernetes.

Author: ```suggestion
```
